linear response (#37)
dftbplus/recipes: docs/linresp/relax.rst

Adiabatic excitation energies
=============================

[Input: `recipes/linresp/range-separated/relax/emi`]

We now relax the structure in the first excited state. The input (dftb_inp.hsd) for this task looks like this::

  Geometry = GenFormat {
      <<< "in.gen" 
  }

  Driver = LBFGS {}

  Hamiltonian = DFTB {
    
      SCC = Yes
      SCCTolerance = 1.0E-10
      MaxAngularMomentum = {
          S = "d"
          C = "p"
	  H = "s"
      }
      SlaterKosterFiles = Type2FileNames {
          Prefix = "../../../slakos/download/mio/mio-1-1/"
          Separator = "-"
          Suffix = ".skf"
      }
  }

  ExcitedState {
      Casida {
          NrOfExcitations = 10
    	  StateOfInterest = 1 
          Symmetry = Singlet
    	  Diagonaliser = Stratmann {SubSpaceFactor = 30}
      }
  }

  ParserOptions = {
      ParserVersion = 10
  }

> In contrast to the earlier examples in this recipe, we now set a *Driver*. We choose LBFGS optimization, but one could also take any other optimizer available in *DFTB+*. You may also set convergence criteria for the forces like detailed in the recipe *Basic usage*. Important is the new entry in the *Casida* block *StateOfInterest*. It tells the code to optimize on the S1 potential energy surface. It is recommended to choose *NrOfExcitations* always somewhat larger (i.e., +5) as *StateOfInterest*, since iterative eigensolvers might not converge to the exact solution for boundary eigenvalues. Note also that during a relexation the order of the excited states might change. This is a frequent cause of error in these kind of simulations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In contrast to the earlier examples in this recipe, we now set a *Driver*. We choose LBFGS optimization, but one could also take any other optimizer available in *DFTB+*. You may also set convergence criteria for the forces like detailed in the recipe :ref:`sec-basics`. Important is the new entry in the *Casida* block *StateOfInterest*. It tells the code to optimize on the S:sub:`1` potential energy surface. It is recommended to choose *NrOfExcitations* always somewhat larger (i.e., +5) as *StateOfInterest*, since iterative eigensolvers might not converge to the exact solution for boundary eigenvalues. Note also that during a relexation the order of the excited states might change. This is a frequent cause of error in these kind of simulations. 
```

During the optimization, the file *EXC.DAT* is constantly updated. Let us have a look at the final result::

      w [eV]       Osc.Str.         Transition         Weight      KS [eV]    Sym.
 
   ================================================================================
 
      1.738        0.00000000         6   ->     7        1.000       1.738      S
      4.512        0.10509561         5   ->     7        0.999       3.516      S
      4.846        0.00000000         4   ->     7        1.000       4.846      S
      5.386        0.00097579         6   ->     8        1.000       5.379      S
      5.915        0.00000000         3   ->     7        1.000       5.915      S
      7.157        0.00000000         5   ->     8        1.000       7.157      S
      7.204        0.00005764         6   ->     9        1.000       7.204      S
      7.215        0.00000000         6   ->    10        1.000       7.215      S
      7.445        0.01593134         6   ->    11        1.000       7.384      S
      8.818        0.10121357         4   ->     8        1.000       8.487      S

> We see that the excitation energy of the S1 decreased by 0.11 eV. This value corresponds to the so-called Stokes shift, which measures the difference between absorption and fluorescence energies. In the present example, absorption and radiative de-excitation from the S1 (i.e., fluorescence) should be very difficult to detect, as already mentioned above. The following diagram illustrates the energetic landscape:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We see that the excitation energy of the S1 decreased by 0.11 eV. This value corresponds to the so-called Stokes shift, which measures the difference between absorption and fluorescence energies. In the present example, absorption and radiative de-excitation from the S:sub:`1` (i.e., fluorescence) should be very difficult to detect, as already mentioned above. The following diagram illustrates the energetic landscape:
```

> We see that the excitation energy of the S1 decreased by 0.11 eV. This value corresponds to the so-called Stokes shift, which measures the difference between absorption and fluorescence energies. In the present example, absorption and radiative de-excitation from the S1 (i.e., fluorescence) should be very difficult to detect, as already mentioned above. The following diagram illustrates the energetic landscape:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We see that the excitation energy of the S:sub:`1` decreased by 0.11 eV. This value corresponds to the so-called Stokes shift, which measures the difference between absorption and fluorescence energies. In the present example, absorption and radiative de-excitation from the S:sub:`1` (i.e., fluorescence) should be very difficult to detect, as already mentioned above. The following diagram illustrates the energetic landscape:
```
